What was your first gig or job or how do
you get into crypto?
>> First crypto gig, I actually started
doing freelance EVM development before I
had a full-time job. We were very much
strict on our process partially for
security reasons and also partially just
we want people that can read directions
and and follow rules. You have some open
source programs or libraries, anything
related to Salana that you think people
should go through, try to contribute to
that are good signals um to get hired.
uh specifically adding token 2022
support um as well as like other utility
functions that exist in Salana program
create or the Salana SDK. Uh there
there's a lot of open source
opportunities there. I'm very much a
techno optimist and view AI as like a
very valuable tool that people should be
using and I think it's a mistake if
you're not experimenting with it. I just
think you need to understand what it's
good at. Right now there's probably like
six useful types of contracts. Like if
we think about like what a blockchain is
and what it's really good at. Hi
everyone and welcome to a new pod. Today
we have Taylor. Taylor is the co-founder
at Exo and Exo is a dev shop uh out of
the US. They primarily work with Solana
companies. They help existing Solana
companies build products on Salana. They
also help other EVM companies move to
Salana. Um if someone requires expertise
in Solana if they're trying to build a
smart contract or something more deeper,
Exo is one of the companies on Salana
that helps you do it. Um, we'll
understand what does the day-to-day look
like at EXO, what kind of projects are
they working on, what are the technical
challenges in building something like
this, how do they hire and everything
around Salana. With that, Taylor,
welcome to the pod. Would love to know
more about yourself.
>> Thank you so much for having me. Quick
background myself. I've been an engineer
for the last 10 years or so. Got started
in crypto about 9 years ago. Um, started
working on EVM stuff, tinking around,
but then switched to Salana in 2020. uh
and had some success with some early
DeFi protocols, winning a hackathon and
and ultimately, you know, starting a few
different projects from there.
>> Got it. Very first question we ask
people is, uh, what was your first gig
or job or how do you get into crypto?
>> First crypto gig, I actually started
doing freelance EVM development before I
had a full-time job. Um, there was a
this is back in 2016ish or so. Um, I
think Zerox had just launched as a DEX
relayer on on the EVM side of things.
Um, and there was a team that wanted to
build I think it was like a relay
aggregator. Uh, and so started doing
some freelance development for EVM smart
contracts helping them build an
aggregator of Zerox re layers.
>> Got it. Um, and when so from 2016
onwards, have you just been working in
cryptos?
>> Yeah, full-time in crypto. Yeah, I got
pulled into a group called Blockfolio
back in 2017. I was there for a few
years. That was eventually bought by
FTX. So, I was at FTX for a couple
years. Um, and then started a couple
projects while while there and and
started, you know, full-time in Salana
in 2021.
>> Oh, super interesting. Uh, very curious
to know about your what did you do at
FDX? Were you on the trading side? Uh,
uh, are you were you working on a
different product than the core
exchange? So Blockfolio, I was leading
mobile development. Uh and so when when
FTX bought B bought Blockfolio, you
know, they're very much looking at
acquiring the user base. Uh I came over
as part of helping, you know, continue
build out the mobile application,
transitioning it from Blockfolio to the
FTX app, which you know was a very
controversial thing for for those folks
that were pretty hardcore on on
Blockfolio. Um and then started just
helping out more general like retail
strategy. So, but mostly focused on
front end development, helping build out
our our product suite.
>> Got it. And like, did you leave FDX
midway or when it ended is when you, you
know, uh, thought of moving on to your
next thing,
>> right?
>> Uh, so I resigned, you know, shortly
when there were rumors going around that
that something was going on and
obviously had had no idea what was going
on and decided, you know what, if if I
don't understand what's going on and I'm
working here, I, you know, can't be a
part of this company. Um and then
ultimately went back to working with my
brother full-time on salon projects.
>> Very interesting. Um would love to know
what happened after that. Like have you
guys experimented with a few projects
since or was the exo the first company
that you stuck in?
>> No. So I mean we've been experimenting
on Salana since 2020. Uh we started with
some DeFi protocols. We built an options
protocol that traded on top of serum. Uh
and that was just a hackathon project.
Uh and then
uh after pivoting well actually we we
acquired another team out of Singapore
that that took over most of the
derivatives stuff. Uh and then we
started pivoting to uh like governance
infrastructure and tokconomics
infrastructure. And so when we started
building that we we launched a product
suite called Armada. And that was
basically helping teams launch tokens.
Uh helping teams manage uh liquidity
with thirdparty market makers in a
decentralized way. Uh and then also um
handle like tokconomics like staking uh
and protocol revenue distribution or
whatnot. Part of that like we actually
help build bonk rewards uh and build the
smart contracts there uh and help them
kind of launch their you know how they
distribute their protocol revenue to to
stakers. Uh and then after that we kind
of bumped into some regulatory issues
which Tommy has talked about extensively
over over a few different interviews and
whatnot. But after that decided to step
away from the project uh and focus on
consulting. We just saw a need in the
market for for strong Salana engineers.
We you know some of the most experienced
since building on sauna since 2020 uh
and realized that we could help fill
that gap.
>> Got it. I want to dive deeper into that
um into you know what do you work at on
at EXO um but before that while you're
building EXO do you ever feel the FOMO
of you know building your own product or
you know something of your own compared
to helping other people do it? Yeah,
absolutely. Like we're we're very much
founders at heart and it's it's
interesting growing a services company,
right? Because you can only scale as
much as you hire talent because you can
only, you know, bring on more clients if
you have enough resources to to service
those clients. And so it's definitely
has its own unique challenges and can
sometimes be frustrating where, you
know, a product is not easier to scale
per se. Um, but you don't have to hire
people to scale, right? And so I think
there's there's definitely part of that
that is alluring to going back to to
building product. And I think for us
like the reason we decided to jump into
consulting and building out this dev
shop was, you know, we didn't know
exactly what we wanted to do yet. You
know, we didn't have conviction on any
one single product that we came up with.
Um, and we felt that not taking a job
and instead building out our own, you
know, dev shop allows us to get a
different vantage point of the market,
talk to other teams, see what problems
they're facing, and then, you know,
maybe ultimately come up with another
product that we want to build ourselves.
So, for us, it was, you know, a a great
way to keep opportunities open and not
not close any doors.
>> Makes sense. And I was using uh as a
company like this you get a lot of
inbound from you know ambitious ideas
that haven't been tried and some tested
tried ideas as well. Um and so you're at
the center of a lot of attention. I
guess you can always you know build a
product whenever you want to yourself.
Um so I'm curious now what kind of
projects you guys work on. Uh if you
could talk about a few of them you know
the ones that shine and the ones that
you can share on the portly. Yeah. So,
we work on a wide range of of products
like all different verticals. Uh, you
know, we work we we've got a few
different teams that we work with over a
long period of time. GTO being one of
them. Um, you know, for them we're we're
you know, essentially seen as like an
extension of their engineering team and
help work on on different projects they
might have. Um, I know some of our team
has like helped update some of their,
you know, restaking some of their chip
router programs and and whatnot. And
this is all like a lot of smart contract
work as well as backend infrastructure
work. Um other teams are more like DeFi
teams. Um you know we'll work with some
RWA issuers. Um we've worked with I
think like the most notable or one that
we can talk about has been Agora the
stablecoin protocol. We've helped work
with them on on helping bridge their you
know EVM contracts to SVM. Uh, and then
we've also done some some deep pin work,
working with deep pin teams, helping
them build out their tokconomic
strategy, building out the smart
contracts for it. Um, yeah, we we work
with a wide range of verticals. I'd say
right now that the most common one we're
getting inbound for has been RWAS. I
think there's just a lot of a lot of
institutions and other financial you
know technology firms that want to
experiment with with RWAS and and
tokenization and you know those are the
teams that don't have the tech talent in
house but they definitely have the
funding to help pay for you know
external resources. So that's definitely
where we found a a lot of traction. And
then we also have, you know, a strong
background in, you know, understanding
legal compliance, KYC, like that's
definitely where part of my background
being from, you know, having spent some
time at an exchange is helpful. Uh, and
then also understand the, you know,
onchain side of things. How do we build
those, uh, you know, systems on chain to
work with the off-chain systems that
are, you know, required?
>> Got it. Yeah, that makes sense. Um would
love to know how do you guys hire and
what kind of talent do you guys look
for? How what's the interview process
like? Things like these.
>> So how we hire everything comes from our
job board. If if you haven't gone
through our careers page and you try to
like DM us on LinkedIn, email, whatever.
Like we're just going to ignore it. Like
we we're very much strict on our
process. Partially for security reasons
and also partially just we want people
that can read directions and and follow
rules. Um so we're pretty strict on
that. Um but the first thing we do is
you know if you've come come through our
you know application we'll we'll scan
your resume look at your background look
at your GitHub try to you know look at
for relevant experience I think right
now you know we're definitely hiring
more for for more senior level roles and
so we'll looking for you know relevant
Salana experience um even if that's open
source contributions we definitely look
at you know people's GitHubs and if they
have open source contributions to to
relevant projects that's a very strong
indicator of one that they know exact
they know what they're doing, but two
they're high agency and willing to to
kind of take their own steps to to you
know prove themselves and and kind of
add value to other parts of the
ecosystem. So we we rank that very
highly. Uh from there we do a quick
phone interview for for cultural you
know perspective. We want to make sure
that this person is a strong
communicator. Uh we want to make sure
that they're you know easy to get along
with, easy to work with, work well in a
team and whatnot. So we'll do we'll do a
30-minute like cultural screening. Then
from there we have two technical
screenings. Uh these are very much meant
to like mimic exactly what you'd be
doing day-to-day at XO. The first is an
architectural interview. Uh so we have a
prompt for for folks to uh pseudo code
uh a Salana Spar contract architecture.
So basically designing like what kind of
state are you storing on chain? How are
you thinking about the instructions set
and whatnot? And it's meant to be
interactive. Like essentially we're the
client and you know the developers the
person asking us like hey you mentioned
that you want this you know there's a
couple different design decisions I can
make implementing it. You know what do
you think? And so it's meant to be a bit
interactive. And then finally we have
you know a coding interview that's an
hourong interview where we have a
repository set up. Uh we'll have them
get access to it and you know it's
missing some functionality that they
need to go ahead and and implement and
and add tests for.
Got it. Um, and so what from what I can
tell right now, both of these are like
smart contract assignments. They're
supposed to architect a smart contract
and then code a smart contract to the
next level.
>> The the first is architecting. The
second is is actually writing code for
for a smart contract.
>> Got it. Makes sense. So is that the sort
of uh talent that you're looking for at
the moment like people who can write
programs on or is an engineer doing
something else also? um you know which
would be like front ends, back ends,
client side, writing flight libraries
>> for yeah that's definitely the easiest
thing for us to screen for is more so
because we feel like it's the one where
there's less people like if you know
like through throughout that process
especially in the coding portion we'll
very quickly be able to tell whether you
know Rust or not and so like we write
most of our backends in Rust uh we we do
some TypeScript depending on the client
and and how they want testing and and
whatnot, but we'll very quickly know
whether you have strong technical chops
from from that interview process. So, we
don't necessarily screen per se for
specific like backend stacks and and
whatnot, but as long as you have strong
engineering fundamentals, like we're
pretty confident you'll be able to fit
into our our process. And I think the
other thing is like, you know, people
talk about how LM LLMs are, you know,
kind of evening the playing field for
someone. Well, when it comes to like
Salana, the SDKs are constantly
changing. Uh, I mean this is really true
for for most web 3 or whatnot, but so
the LLMs are definitely less helpful
there. And so at least like we need to
screen for the thing that's going to be
the most difficult for for the person to
pick up. Uh, and so we're we're more
confident someone could pick up backend,
you know, engineering work on the fly
versus picking up Salana engineering
work on the fly.
>> Yep, that makes sense. Do you have some
open source programs or libraries
anything related to Salana that you
think people should go through try to
contribute to that are good signals um
to get hired?
>> I think
yeah I mean there's there's not a ton
that come to mind. I I guess like one I
would say is Pinocchio. I think that's
but that's more of like something that's
still very much in in its infancy. And
if you understand how Salana works and
you understand it enough to be able to
like contribute to the Pinocchio uh you
know repository then that's like a very
strong signal. There's also a lot of
work that still needs to be done there.
Uh specifically adding token 2022
support um as well as like other utility
functions that exist in Salana program
create or the Salana SDK. Uh there
there's a lot of open source
opportunities there. Um, so it's
definitely like you're going to be
getting a little bit more deeper into
the, you know, into the stack, a little
bit more lower level, but that would
definitely be one where if we saw
someone that's been contributing
Pinocchio and and they're looking for a
job, like we're we're more likely than
going to hire them.
>> Got it.
>> Yeah. Go ahead, S. Yeah.
you you mentioned the majority of the
you you know the kind of clients that
you are most of the clients that are
coming are like RWA companies or some of
this traditional asset issuers who want
to issue asset on Salana so I'm curious
to I mean I'm curious about what what
their real need is because when they
want to issue a token the smart
contracts for that already exist like
you know either the SPL token program or
the token 22 programs and and also all
of those extensions already exist on
chain. So uh and I'm curious to
understand from what you see what are
they really looking for? Is it like a
newer exotic transfer cooks that it you
know adheres to their specific needs or
it's
it's much more like vanilla that they
can do with the do directly with the
existing tokenistic I guess. Yeah,
that's that's a great question. Yeah, so
when we originally started working with
RW RWA issuers, we thought, man, what a
what a great product it would be to
productize, you know, them minting their
their tokens and whatnot. And it should
be super easy cuz like you said, Jake,
like there's a lot of the tools already
exist, but what we quickly realized when
we started working with multiple of them
is that, you know, every single issuer
has very different compliance and legal
needs. And so it's not the minting of
the token that is difficult and you know
the issuing of it. It's really making
sure that they have the correct
role-based access control systems on
chain that that they require. Making
sure that they have the correct
compliance systems on chain that that
they you know that their compliance team
requires and whatnot. So it's not so
much of the hey how do we get this token
out there and create it. It's a lot more
of the administrative and operational
overhead that that these teams require.
And so and and especially because a lot
of them the ones that have been around
for a while they're very much stuck in
their ways in a sense that they have uh
you know internal off-chain systems that
you know they already use for tracking
you know what investors are holding
their tokens have they you know met KYC
you know requirements and and whatnot
and they're not willing you know they're
they're not necessarily going to change
that just to get a tokenization strategy
out there. And so it's very much trying
to like fit this new system in with
their old legacy systems and making sure
that the onchain components can fit with
the off-chain components. So it's a lot
more on like the legal compliance side
and and operational, you know, overhead.
>> Interesting. So how what does it
actually manifest as right? For example,
you guys worked extensively on the
attestation service and and how how do
you go about doing for example, if you
want to do an onchain KYC or ensure that
only a person who is authorized to hold
this token or interact with this token
is
is actually the person doing it. How how
do you how do you do that?
Yeah. So there's there's a handful of
different ways and again it depends on
you know what the financial institution
is comfortable with doing right so
everyone's going to have a different
strategy like one strategy is hey we
have some sort of allow and block list
on chain um you could just you know
create that using PDAs whatnot right
infinitely scalable it works well um and
then you could check it ver you know
using transfer hooks that might work for
some but then if they're like hey you
know we actually need a lot of you know
downstream integrations with other DeFi
protocols
As we've come to learn over the last
year is the transfer hooks are pretty
prohibitive of that, right? There's been
a lot of push back on the developer
experience from from transfer hooks from
D5 protocols. And so now a lot are
moving towards this um using the default
account state uh setting it you know to
default to being frozen uh and then
deciding you know oh if someone has
passed KYC on their um you know internal
system sending a trans transaction on
chains you know acknowledging that this
person has you know finished KYC and
either un you know unfreezing or thawing
the account um or just marking it in
some sort of allow or block list that
that it is you know thawable. So it's
you know it's a bit different but you
know just got to make sure that that it
fits with their existing system. So
there is some offchain authority that
that gets to decide whether they have
met the requirements. Not every there
are also some teams that you know want
to have you know certain data on chain.
They're now they're not going to put
like personal you know information on
chain but they might want to know like
what country the user is and store that
on chain so that way that could be used
in some manner downstream. So some, you
know, go beyond just allow and block
list and say, you know, I need to have,
you know, almost like a like a KYC
profile for this user on the chain and
tag it to their wallet. So they'll go
through this offchain process going
through normal KYC document
verification,
etc. And then the, you know, the
institution will send a transaction
onchain storing what kind of information
they have verified and and need to need
to have on chain.
>> What does, how do you decide who works
on what? Like I'm assuming you have like
five clients and maybe 10 engineers. Um
so is it like one engineer is working on
a project at a time. Um then once the
company goes are they benched for a few
weeks or do they move to a different
project? Do you work make them work on a
personal project which usually you know
um happens in consult. So I'm very
curious towards the execution of a devop
um when it comes to employee um you know
arrangements.
>> Yeah definitely the resourcing has been
interesting or resource allocation has
been interesting to say the least. I
think that's one of been one of our
biggest learning curves is you know
working on on a services company. Um
it's definitely very much of okay who's
who's got availability availability
coming up such that it fits with the
timeline of the prospective client. Um
that's that's number one. Um like we
can't just shift we can't just take
someone who's been working on a project
for two months and shift them off the
project if they're like even if they're
the best fit for it. Uh but then number
two is like you know if we have multiple
engineers available for a project and we
only need you know a couple or you know
one or two or whatever it is you know
we'll we'll look at who's got the best
skill set to to match that that project.
Have they done some have they worked on
something similar? You know that's a big
indicator whether they can handle it.
Have they in you know if that client
needs to integrate with other protocols?
Has this you know engineer interacted
with those protocols? Have they
integrated with those protocols before?
And so I think that's that's generally
like kind of how we look at is like
who's going to be the best fit that's
available? And then in terms of like how
we how we work with the clients. Um you
know we usually have at least two
engineers. Um, so it's at least one
engineering manager, which is usually
myself or Tommy or one of the engineers
on a team who has, you know, three,
four, almost five years of experience on
Salana. Uh, they're usually doing, you
know, helping with architecture, PR
reviews, etc., making sure, you know,
the the program quality is or code is
quality. Um, and then we'll have, you
know, one to two, sometimes more,
depending on how big the project is, but
most if it's just a, you know,
short-term smart contract, like those
usually get done with one to two
engineers, we'll have, you know, those
engineers focused on actual
implementation. And so we usually spend,
you know, one to two weeks uh,
architecting the the program, working
with the client to make sure that, you
know, all the features are met. if it's
if they have an EVM contract that we
need to port over, you know, that
usually takes a bit longer, but we'll
read all the EVM code and then map it
out for what we need to do on on the SVM
side of things.
And then, you know, once we've done the
architecture side, then we start
breaking down into tasks and and going
into development.
>> Got it. Yeah, makes sense. I think
that's what the question.
>> How big is a team right now cares to
understand how the team is set up,
right? like like you mentioned like in
in most cases in dev shops like with
resource allocation is
the major problem you want to make sure
that you know your client the number of
incoming projects and the number of uh
resources that you have are like in
line.
>> Yeah, that's definitely been been one of
like our toughest challenges. Right now
we're a team of eight including both
Tommy and I or team of eight engineers
and then we have we have a marketing
person as well but you know we've we've
been trying to grow responsibly like we
don't want to get into a place where we
ever you know if there's a downturn in
the market where we have to let people
go like we hire folks on a contractual
basis but we you know treat everyone
like full-time employees. Um that
includes you know like even though like
we we'll give people pay PTO if they
need to like take time off and and
whatnot. Um, but with that said, you
know, we want to make sure that we grow
responsibly because we treat people like
they're full-time employees. Uh, and so
to do that, you know, we need to make
sure that we're not overhiring too
quickly to the point that, you know,
sometimes we're actually telling clients
that, you know, we can't take them on or
if they have or really if they have too
tight of a timeline, like we're just not
going to be a fit for them. Um, or we
have to kind of delay their, you know,
delay starting their project if that's
acceptable to them. So it it's led us to
to turning people down when we try to
grow slowly. Um but with that you know
like we have tried to bring on clients
in a manner where we kind of have some
sort of balance like the way I explain
is like we take a barbell approach. So
on one side we have like larger teams.
These are your uh you know hundreds of
millions to billions of FDV type
protocols uh or teams that have raised
significant amount of capital with with
large valuations that you know have some
sort of stability and these are longer
term agreements. These are you know 6 12
or even you know 6 to 12 month or even
indefinite contracts. Um these are like
GTO Salana Foundation etc.
And those, you know, like those are the
teams that like if a bare market hits,
they're not they're not just going to
turn away. You know, they're still
pushing forward on all of their
initiatives. And then on the other side,
you have your more shorter term uh
startupy like clients that are, you
know, three to four month projects. Uh
you know, maybe you know, ideally raised
a series A or more. Uh but you know, if
the bare market hits, you know, they
haven't they maybe not have found
product market fit yet and they're more
likely to churn. And so we try to find
balance in that barbell approach where
we bake in stability to our overall team
by having those longerterm larger
clients. Uh but then also uh make sure
that we are utilizing all of our
resources effectively, you know, all of
our engineers effectively by having um
you know these these other shorter term
contracts.
>> Interesting. I'm curious to hear about
your thoughts on AI or AI assisted
coding because
I mean I understand that for a lot of
the spec and the API of things that are
core to Salana or in programs and also
the web 3.js that that keeps changing
and LS may not do a good job job with it
but things that are external plumping
right so how how do you do you are you
leveraging AI or you still feel that
they're not you know not adequate enough
where you could fully use them what's
your
because now you're using AI if it works
means that you know your profit margins
are a lot higher Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Very much depends what we're
working on. Like I personally don't
utilize it a lot. I'd say I probably
utilize it maybe like 10% of the time,
maybe 15%. And that's really only if I'm
doing, you know, some mundane tasks.
Like I started using it for some like
DevOps stuff the other day, just like
helping write like cloud formation
scripts and and other sort of things.
Um, but I haven't I don't use it a ton
on the Salana side. At least this time
last year or even like beginning of this
year, it was really rough. The LMS would
hallucinate anytime you were acquiring
it about, you know, some sort of Salana
specific code. Um, I know there's been a
lot of work done for um like MPC servers
on Salana and other sort of things to
help uh you know improve the the
learning or feedback loop for these
outlines, whatever you want to call it.
Uh, so there's definitely a few models
I'm I'm looking or more fine-tuned
models that I'm looking to like start
experimenting with. Um, I don't actually
know how much of, you know, I don't
think a lot of our team uses it on the
Salana side, but I I wouldn't be
surprised if we're using it when we're
building like front-end applications and
and maybe even some sort of backend
components. But yeah, I think like on
this the smart contract side, they're
they're just not there yet to to be
useful. I feel like I end up like if I
copy pasta their code over, I'm ending
up spending more time fixing it versus
I've been writing Salana code long
enough that my brain's just going to be
faster than the LM at this point.
>> Yeah, I think a lot of people other than
mundane tasks, I think even when you're
writing backends that are not crypto, um
where it gets more complex, beyond, it's
just easier to write it yourself.
>> Yeah. And that's that's not to say that
we don't view it as or I don't view it
as like an existential threat or or
something like I I'm very much a techno
optimist and view AI as like a very
valuable tool that people should be
using and I think it's a mistake if
you're not experimenting with it. I just
think you need to understand what it's
good at right now. Project what it's
going to be good at in the future and
then you know under try to try to figure
out like when it's optimal to use and
and when it's not. Like there's there's
a time and a place for every tool. Right
now for like salon smart contracts like
I haven't found the right tool for it
and I haven't found the right LM for it.
But that's not to say that that it'll
happen in the future and then we'll
probably re-evaluate you know how does
it like I don't I don't think I'd ever
want to get to the point where we have
to let people go because of an AI. I
think it's more of it's going to help
speed people up. And so what that would
then do is allow us to probably take on
more clients. You know keep the same
amount of engineers but take on more
clients. uh just because we might be
able to churn through contracts faster
and things like that. And then maybe you
know we might have to adjust how we do
pricing. Like right now all of our
clients like we bill on a monthly basis.
We don't do project based billing um
just because that's been problematic in
the past. But you know maybe we'd have
to do project based billing because we
could churn through projects a lot
quicker because we're we're you know
leveraging AI to to code really fast.
Got it. I have a fairly controversial
question for you Taylor tooling keeps
saying there are only in in all six
useful smart contracts ever but a lot of
the work you seem to be doing you know
revolves around building smart contracts
for other clients right so
it it I mean that these two seem to be
at like you know at the polar ends of uh
what you actually need with smart
contracts. So, I'd love to hear your
thoughts on that. Are there only six
useful smart contracts or is it
infinity?
>> Love the question. I think I would
rephrase it to that there's probably
like six useful types of contracts. Like
if we think about like what a blockchain
is and what it's really good at, uh, you
know, the trustlessness helps us
financialize everything, right? like as
we start seeing this wave of
tokenization, we're seeing how we can
tokenize or, you know, financialize
anything. There's been a lot of wacky
experiments on the blockchain. Um, and
so I I think I would say that yeah,
there's probably like six useful types
of contracts, but not necessarily six
contracts, right? Like the the first
contract written for one type is not
going to be the best. there might be
other types of fe there might be other
features um other mechanisms that that
you know have certain benefits in
certain scenarios. So I I think I think
there's going to be always be more than
just you know six more contracts that
are that are worth using.
Just so double clicking on that right
what are you when you say Thai are you
talking about like for example now token
to SPL token to P token both are same
interface same functionality
but then theation is completely
different right one is an optimization
of the other do you mean to say in that
manner or or you were talking about you
know the interface remains the same but
then the behavior is slightly different
because you
something more nuanced.
I was thinking a little bit more nuance
like the the SPL token to P token is is
an interesting one but but I think less
on the optimizations because in theory
like if SPL token was not uh immutable
then they could just upgrade it to be P
token and it's still the same contract
right I think more of what I'm thinking
is okay you have very different types of
AMMs you have you know constant products
you have different types of of curves on
constant products and so I I don't think
that they're just always going to be one
AMM M but I do, you know, I think AMM is
one of the core types of smart contracts
that make sense to have and and will be
widely used. So I think it's more
there's going to be variations on on
these types of contracts.
Interesting. And also one interesting
trend that I've been observing is that
now with dark amn,
you know, the the the topic of the past
couple of months. So they to my
understanding is that they do a lot of
their things offchain and that they have
like a very low cost oracle update
that's pretty much what they do right so
you you start you're also kind of
starting to see this hybrid architecture
where a lot of the heavy lifting is
upchain and you're kind of executing in
a maybe a trusted in a trusted
environment and then you move the most
the least complicated part onchain
So
yeah. So do you feel like that also
reduces the surplus area for what kind
what type of computation you eventually
want to run on chain?
>> I I mean so the yeah the the prop amms
are are super interesting. I mean like I
think it's an evolution that that makes
sense and and mostly because you know
the reason it's possible is because
Salana is so cheap. It's very cheap to
to make these oracle updates. It's more
expensive to move liquidity around
especially concentrated liquidity. So I
think it's an evolution that makes
sense. I still think there's a world
where you know that that takes a lot of
active market making on the offchain
side of things. So there's still a lot
of infrastructure and overhead there.
And so I still think that there's going
to be value in having a, you know,
constant product AMM that is, you know,
more for longtail assets. That's not to
say prop AMMs aren't getting into
longtail assets. They certainly are and
certainly will, but they're going to be
very focused on the ones that are doing
high volume, closer, you know, closer to
blue chip uh than than like very long
tail. So I I think both will exist. Uh
but it's definitely a market evolution
that that makes a lot of sense.
>> Yeah, that makes sense.
Do you have anything else? More
questions questions.
>> Thank you so much, Taylor, for your
time. This was super insightful. I'm
sure people learned a lot from it. Um,
>> do you have any parting thoughts for the
audience? Anyone else be looking to, you
know, get into salana development?
>> Oh, if you're looking to get into
development, definitely check out blue
shift.gg. I really like those guys that
they're they're awesome and I think the
platform they built is really cool. Um,
also just use the Salana docs. feel free
to reach out to me on Twitter. My handle
is NFTT Taylor. Um I'm always happy to
like, you know, help people along in
their their Salana journey. Um but no,
other than that, thanks so much, guys.
This was uh super fun and and for anyone
that's, you know, looking for for a job,
feel free to apply on our on our job
board, Exote.
>> All right, thank you everyone. Have a
good day.
>> Thank you so much for joining us. And
>> thank you.
>> Cool. Thanks, guys.
>> Right. Thank you. Have a good day. I